# Print Management System
Printer Software creates printing efficiency which in turn reduce cost and increase productivity. Print management, print monitor and adjustable security settings to prevent waste and unauthorized use are key features of our software. We have provided our solution to thousands of businesses and educational institutions. Our solutions have in turn Improved work control, reduced costs and increased effciency. Proposed system is accessed by three entities namely, Admin, User and Release Station. Admin need to login with their valid login credentials first in order to access the web application. After successful login, admin can access all the modules and perform/manage ench task accurately. Admin can perform task such as adding new user and creating login credentials for them. Admin can view or delete a registered user. System allows admin to view printing job list and approve or disapprove printing job. User can login Into the system and perform task such as uplond document for printing, and send printing request, view printing jobs, printing status and recharge their account wallet. A person at release station prints tihe desired requested document. Application handles load balancing on every printer on the network. Modules and their Description: The system comprises of 3 major modules with their sab-modules as follows: 1. User • Login: User need to login using valid Id and password in order to access the system. • Web Print: Upload Document (No. of pages, copies, and caleulate total number of pages) and add printing job. • Jobs Pending Release: User can view all users' uploaded documents as well as number of pages, documents and timing It may take. • Printer status: As per load balancing mechanism, printing job is divided between printers. • Recharge: User can recharge his account wallet. 2. Admin • Login: Admin need to login using valid login credentials. • Add User: Add user details with his personal details and can sent user Id and password to his email Id • View User: Can view registered user details. • Delete User: Can delete registered user if needed. • Print approve: he can approve for printing based on this timing will be changed automatically and load balancing. Print amount will be caleulated and deducted from student's wallet.3. Release Station Print/Delete Document:User can login with their eredentials and print the document or delete It. Advantages of project • Easy To Install and Use • Printer Manager & Print Monitor • Print Counting & Print Tracking • Optimizing Printing workflow • Load Balancing • Authenticate Users • Enables secure printing
